projects/circularity/README.md, before:

Circularity
===

A motion poem using random number generation and velocity applied to circles...

Also at: http://bit.ly/op-spark-circularity

**Table of Contents**


- [Prerequisites](#prerequisistes)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Loops To The Rescue](#loops-to-the-rescue)
	- [While Loops](#while-loops)
	- [For Loops](#for-loops)
	- [Arrays](#arrays)
	- [Iterating over Arrays](#Iterating-over-arrays)
- [Lesson Steps](#lesson-steps)
	- [TODO 1 : Declare Our Variables](#todo-1--declare-our-variables)
	- [TODO 2 : Create a function to draw a circle](#todo-2--create-a-function-to-draw-a-circle)
	- [TODO 3 : Draw 5 circles!](#todo-3--draw-5-circles)
	- [TODO 4 : Move your circles](#todo-4--move-your-circles)
	- [TODO 5 : Keep your circles in the screen](#todo-5--keep-your-circles-in-the-screen)
	- [TODO 6 : Loop from all sides](#todo-6--loop-from-all-sides)
	- [TODO 7 : Draw 100 circles](#todo-7--draw-100-circles)
	- [TODO 8 : Iterate over the array](#todo-8--Iterate-over-the-array)
	- [TODO 9 : Move all our circles and keep them all in bounds](#todo-9--move-all-our-circles-and-keep-them-all-in-bounds)
	- [TODO 10 : Go Live](#todo-10--go-live)

# Very Important
## Installation 

### Make sure you can install Circularity
Go to <a href="https://gitpod.io/access-control"> Access Control </a> and check all of the boxes under Github, then save your preferences (if they are all already checked, then you can skip this step).

### Copy and paste the following commands into the bash terminal, then hit ENTER

**NOTE:** Only the first command is guaranteed to display output. If there is an error on this command, check with your instructor. The second command will often give an error, but that is fine. The rest of the commands should display nothing after being entered.

* git clone https://github.com/operationspark/circularity
* mkdir projects/circularity
* rm -rf circularity/.git*
* cp -r circularity/* projects/circularity/.
* rm -rf circularity

#### Note: If already reinstalled but not working, paste the following commands instead:
* cd projects/circularity
* npm install -g opspark
* bower install

## Overview

The portrait of the programmer as a young artist continues, using random number generation, color, and velocity applied to circles in this little motion poem. Using the draw line API, you'll create a cool randomized piece of art. 

Some concepts you'll practice and learn:
* Drawing with CreateJS and our draw utility.
* Leveraging the power of built-in and 3rd party API (DRY), like Math and opspark-draw.
* Variable declaration and initialization.
* Function invocation and passing arguments to functions.
* Looping.
* Conditional statements - making decisions in code.
* Recognizing code blocks.
* Calculating coordinates in a cartesian system.
* Calculating boundaries.
* Animating.

# Lesson Steps

# TODO 1 : Declare Our Variables

Start by opening the `js/init.js` file. We will do all our coding in this file. 

**FIND:** The `PROGRAM SETUP` section of the program. `TODO 1` will be below.

The goal of this project is to create 100 animated circles. Before we get ahead of ourselves, let's create one circle. Declare a variable to hold that circle (we will deal with initializing it later). Also we want to create an empty array to hold our circles, more on that later:

**CODE:** Under **TODO 1**, declare 2 variables: `circle` and `circles`

````javascript
// TODO 1: Declare our variables //
var circle;			// variable to hold a single circle when creating circles / iterating
var circles = [];	// variable to store all circles in one Array
````


# TODO 2 : Create a function to draw a circle

We will want to draw many circles in this project so putting the code to draw one circle inside a **function** will make the code much more re-usable! We've created a variable for you called `drawCircle` to hold our function. 

**FIND:** The `PROGRAM SETUP` Section and `// TODO: 2`

**CODE:** Declare a Function `drawCircle`. It should have no Parameters. When called, it should execute the sequence below:

````javascript
// Code to draw a circle
circle = draw.randomCircleInArea(canvas, true, true, '#999', 2);
physikz.addRandomVelocity(circle, canvas);
view.addChild(circle);
circles.push(circle);

````

**HINT:** to create a function use the following syntax: `function nameOfFunction(parameters) { }`

## What does this code actually do?

<details> <summary> Click the arrow to find out! </summary>

First we call a function from the `draw` library: a collection of functions that allow us to draw various shapes on our `canvas`. This method, `draw.randomCircleInArea` will draw a circle of random size, color, and location within the screen along with a few other settings. Check out the parameters of the function below:

    randomCircleInArea(area, randomizeAlpha, addCross, borderColor, borderThickness, randomRadialProps)
    
We temporarily store the output of the function in `circle`. We then use the `physikz` library, a library of functions that provide motion to canvas drawings, to add a random velocity and direction to our circle.

To get the circle to appear on the screen we add the circle as a *child* of `view` (Think of the parent <-> child relationship of HTML elements!).

Lastly we save each new circle in an array using the `.push()` method. Doing so keeps all circles that we make together in one location which will be very useful very soon!

</details>

# TODO 3 : Draw 5 circles!

**FIND:** The `PROGRAM SETUP` Section and `// TODO: 3 / 7`

**CODE:** Call your new `drawCircle` Function 5 times:

```js
// TODO 3 / 7 : Call the drawCircle() function 

/* Your Function Calls HERE */
```

**HINT:** You can make a **Function Call** using the following syntax:

```javascript
nameOfFunction();
```

## Save your code, Refresh your game

For now, by copying and pasting these function calls we are violating the **DRY Rule: D**ont **R**epeat **Y**ourself. Keep this in mind as we move on. We'll find a better way to do this!


# TODO 4 : Move your circles

Awesome, let's do some fun stuff with our circles now.  

**FIND:** The `function update()` where we will write code to animate our circles. 

Remember that the `update()` Function is called 60 times per second (also referred to as 60 ticks/frames per second), and on each new frame we want to move our circles slightly.

The `physikz.updatePosition( circle )` Function which accepts a circle as an argument will redraw that circle in a new location!

Since our circles are all stored in the `circles` **Array** we must use _Bracket Notation_ to pull out each individual circle to be moved. Bracket Notation includes the **Index** of the value that we want to pull out of the Array. The first value in the Array has an index of `0`, the next has an index of `1`, and so on.

```javascript
myArray[0] //--> returns the first value in myArray
myArray[1] //--> returns the second value in myArray
```

**CODE:** Call the `physikz.updatePosition()` Function and pass in the **first circle** in the `circles` Array. Then, do the same with the other 4 circles. Your code should look like this

```javascript
function update() {
	// TODO 4 : Update the circle's position //

	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
}
```


## Suggestion
You can make your circles move more quickly (once they are moving) by changing the `physikz.addRandomVelocity` line to have two extra arguments. This will make testing future steps easier.

Back up in the `drawCircle()` function, try changing that line to be `physikz.addRandomVelocity(circle, canvas, 10, 10);`. If you want the circles to go faster, put bigger numbers. If you want them to go slower, put smaller ones.


# TODO 5 : Keep your circles in the screen 

Call `game.checkCirclePosition` on each of your circles

The incomplete Function `game.checkCirclePosition()`, when called, is meant to keep circles that stray off the screen on the screen. 

**FIND:** The `update` Function and `// TODO 5`

**CODE:** Call the `game.checkCirclePosition()` Function and pass in the **first circle** in the `circles` Array. Then, do the same with the other 4 circles. Your code should look like this

```javascript
// TODO 5 : Call game.checkCirclePosition() on your circles.

game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
```

**Save your code and refresh your program.**

At this point you'll notice that the circles only come back if they exit through the right side of the screen. In the next part, we'll fix this.

# TODO 6 : Loop from all sides

**FIND:** The Function Declaration for `game.checkCirclePosition()`. Currently, it should contain this code:

````javascript
if (circle.x > canvas.width) {
	circle.x = 0;
}
````

## IMPORTANT - Read about the circle and canvas

**The Circle**

Each `circle` has 2 properties: `circle.x` and `circle.y`
- `circle.x` is the current position of the circle along the x-axis.
- `circle.y` is the current position of the circle along the y-axis. 

**The Canvas**

The `canvas` represents the blank screen and allows us to add drawings to it. The canvas has 2 very important *properties*:
- `canvas.width` is the maximum x-coordinate on the screen.
- `canvas.height` is the maximum y-coordinate on the screen.

The minimum x and y coordinates are `0` and `0`. This is called the origin, where the x-axis and y-axis intersect at 0, and is always located in the top left corner of the browser window. 

<img src="img/screenBounds.png" height="300px">

Since `canvas.width` is the **Maximum** x-coordinate on the screen, if `circle.x` is greater than that value, then we know the box has drifted past the right side of the screen.

`circle.x = 0` re-assigns the x-coordinate of the circle to `0`, placing it on the left side - opposite of where the box left the screen!

The Function is incomplete however. It only keeps circles that exit the right side on the screen! 

**CODE:** Add additional `if` statements to check the other three sides of the screen. Your Function should look like this:

```js
game.checkCirclePosition = function(circle) {

	// if the circle has gone past the RIGHT side of the screen then place it on the LEFT
	if ( circle.x > canvas.width ) {
		circle.x = 0;
	}
	
	// TODO 5 : YOUR CODE STARTS HERE //////////////////////
	
	/* Your conditional statements HERE */

	// YOUR TODO 5 CODE ENDS HERE //////////////////////////
}
```

## Hints
<details> <summary>  Hints for common issues
</summary>

### Issue 1: Circles disappear
Possible causes:
1. You didn't handle the cases of all four sides
2. You used `else if` or `else` for some of the conditional statements (all four checks should be independent)
3. One or more of your conditions are incorrect
4. One or more of your assignments are incorrect

### Issue 2: Circles get stuck
This is caused if you move the circle to the wrong location. Check each assignment in your conditional statements and make sure you are sending your circle to the opposite side of the canvas. 

Also make sure you are not changing the x value for the top and bottom, nor should you be changing the y value for the left and right.

### Issue 3: Circles teleport without hitting the edge of the screen
This means that at least one of your conditions is correct. Make sure you are using `canvas.width` and `canvas.height`, and that you aren't putting in raw numbers (except for 0 -- that one is okay).

</details>

**CHALLENGE:** The circle is centered around its own `x` and `y` position. To find the outer right edge of the circle, we can use the `circle.radius` property like so:

```javascript
var rightEdge = circle.x + circle.radius;
```

Use the `circle.radius` property to calculate the four edges of the circle to make the  circle more smoothly exit and enter the screen!

# TODO 7 : Draw 100 circles

A loop should do the job! 

**FIND:** `// TODO 3 / 7` and your repetitive calls to `drawCircle()`.

**CODE:** Replace your repetitive code with a loop (either a `while` or a `for` loop) that will call the `drawCircle()` Function 100 times.

**HINT:** Here is the basic outline of a while loop that runs 10 times...

```javascript
var loopsCompleted = 0; 
while (loopsCompleted < 10) {
    // do something
    loopsCompleted++
}
```
...and a for loop that runs 10 times:

```js
for (var loopsCompleted = 0; loopsCompleted < 10; loopsCompleted++) {
    // do something
}
```

# TODO 8 : Iterate over the array

Now that we have 100 circles, we need a way to move all 100 circles and keep all 100 circles within the screen without calling on each circle individually. **Iterating** is the way to go!

Iteration is the process of accessing every element in an array and performing some action with that element. 

To help iterate, we want to answer the following questions:
1. What are you trying to repeat?
2. What needs to change from loop to loop?
3. How long will the loop run?

In our case, we want to access every `circle` from our `circles` array and apply the `physikz.updatePosition(circle)` function on each circle. The circle is that we call the Function with changes from loop to loop. We will loop until every circle has been called on!

To iterate we can follow this pattern

```javascript
for (var i = 0; i < myArray.length; i++) {
    var eachValue = myArray[i];
    
    // code to repeat using eachValue
}
```
How can we apply this pattern to our `circles` array? What code do we want to execute for each value?

**FIND:** The `update` Function, below **TODO 8**

**CODE:** Follow the pattern above and create a loop that will iterate over the `circles` array and create a variable `var eachCircle` for each circle in the Array. 

# TODO 9 : Move all our circles and keep them all in bounds

Awesome job! Now that we have our loop in place and we are iterating over our `circles` Array, let's use the `circle` that we pull out on each loop to do some cool stuff!

1. Within the loop that you just created, call the `physikz.updatePosition(eachCircle)` function.
2. Then, call the `game.checkCirclePosition(eachCircle)` function.
3. Delete your calls to those functions from **TODO 4** and **TODO 5**
4. Sit back and relax

Congrats!

## TODO 10 : Go Live

In your bash terminal, enter the following commands, pressing ENTER after each one:

`git add .`

`git commit -m 'adding circularity'`

`git push`

Give it a couple minutes and you should be able to view the additions to your website live on the web at `username.github.io` (Where `username` is your own GitHub username.)

Your Circularity is now safely on GitHub. Congrats!

Commit message:

made manual backup on my github

projects/circularity/README.md, after:

Circularity
===

A motion poem using random number generation and velocity applied to circles...

Also at: http://bit.ly/op-spark-circularity

**Table of Contents**


- [Prerequisites](#prerequisistes)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Loops To The Rescue](#loops-to-the-rescue)
	- [While Loops](#while-loops)
	- [For Loops](#for-loops)
	- [Arrays](#arrays)
	- [Iterating over Arrays](#Iterating-over-arrays)
- [Lesson Steps](#lesson-steps)
	- [TODO 1 : Declare Our Variables](#todo-1--declare-our-variables)
	- [TODO 2 : Create a function to draw a circle](#todo-2--create-a-function-to-draw-a-circle)
	- [TODO 3 : Draw 5 circles!](#todo-3--draw-5-circles)
	- [TODO 4 : Move your circles](#todo-4--move-your-circles)
	- [TODO 5 : Keep your circles in the screen](#todo-5--keep-your-circles-in-the-screen)
	- [TODO 6 : Commit your working code](#todo-6--commit-your-working-code)
	- [TODO 7 : Loop from all sides](#todo-7--loop-from-all-sides)
	- [TODO 8 : Draw 100 circles](#todo-8--draw-100-circles)
	- [TODO 9 : Iterate over the array](#todo-9--Iterate-over-the-array)
	- [TODO 10 : Move all our circles and keep them all in bounds](#todo-10--move-all-our-circles-and-keep-them-all-in-bounds)
	- [TODO 11 : Go Live](#todo-11--go-live)

# Very Important
## Installation 

### Make sure you can install Circularity
Go to <a href="https://gitpod.io/access-control"> Access Control </a> and check all of the boxes under Github, then save your preferences (if they are all already checked, then you can skip this step).

### Copy and paste the following commands into the bash terminal, then hit ENTER

**NOTE:** Only the first command is guaranteed to display output. If there is an error on this command, check with your instructor. The second command will often give an error, but that is fine. The rest of the commands should display nothing after being entered.

* git clone https://github.com/operationspark/circularity
* mkdir projects/circularity
* rm -rf circularity/.git*
* cp -r circularity/* projects/circularity/.
* rm -rf circularity

#### Note: If already reinstalled but not working, paste the following commands instead:
* cd projects/circularity
* npm install -g opspark
* bower install

## Overview

The portrait of the programmer as a young artist continues, using random number generation, color, and velocity applied to circles in this little motion poem. Using the draw line API, you'll create a cool randomized piece of art. 

Some concepts you'll practice and learn:
* Drawing with CreateJS and our draw utility.
* Leveraging the power of built-in and 3rd party API (DRY), like Math and opspark-draw.
* Variable declaration and initialization.
* Function invocation and passing arguments to functions.
* Looping.
* Conditional statements - making decisions in code.
* Recognizing code blocks.
* Calculating coordinates in a cartesian system.
* Calculating boundaries.
* Animating.

# Lesson Steps

# TODO 1 : Declare Our Variables

Start by opening the `js/init.js` file. We will do all our coding in this file. 

**FIND:** The `PROGRAM SETUP` section of the program. `TODO 1` will be below.

The goal of this project is to create 100 animated circles. Before we get ahead of ourselves, let's create one circle. Declare a variable to hold that circle (we will deal with initializing it later). Also we want to create an empty array to hold our circles, more on that later:

**CODE:** Under **TODO 1**, declare 2 variables: `circle` and `circles`

````javascript
// TODO 1: Declare our variables //
var circle;			// variable to hold a single circle when creating circles / iterating
var circles = [];	// variable to store all circles in one Array
````


# TODO 2 : Create a function to draw a circle

We will want to draw many circles in this project so putting the code to draw one circle inside a **function** will make the code much more re-usable! We've created a variable for you called `drawCircle` to hold our function. 

**FIND:** The `PROGRAM SETUP` Section and `// TODO: 2`

**CODE:** Declare a Function `drawCircle`. It should have no Parameters. When called, it should execute the sequence below:

````javascript
// Code to draw a circle
circle = draw.randomCircleInArea(canvas, true, true, '#999', 2);
physikz.addRandomVelocity(circle, canvas);
view.addChild(circle);
circles.push(circle);

````

**HINT:** to create a function use the following syntax: `function nameOfFunction(parameters) { }`

## What does this code actually do?

<details> <summary> Click the arrow to find out! </summary>

First we call a function from the `draw` library: a collection of functions that allow us to draw various shapes on our `canvas`. This method, `draw.randomCircleInArea` will draw a circle of random size, color, and location within the screen along with a few other settings. Check out the parameters of the function below:

    randomCircleInArea(area, randomizeAlpha, addCross, borderColor, borderThickness, randomRadialProps)
    
We temporarily store the output of the function in `circle`. We then use the `physikz` library, a library of functions that provide motion to canvas drawings, to add a random velocity and direction to our circle.

To get the circle to appear on the screen we add the circle as a *child* of `view` (Think of the parent <-> child relationship of HTML elements!).

Lastly we save each new circle in an array using the `.push()` method. Doing so keeps all circles that we make together in one location which will be very useful very soon!

</details>

# TODO 3 : Draw 5 circles!

**FIND:** The `PROGRAM SETUP` Section and `// TODO: 3 / 7`

**CODE:** Call your new `drawCircle` Function 5 times:

```js
// TODO 3 / 7 : Call the drawCircle() function 

/* Your Function Calls HERE */
```

**HINT:** You can make a **Function Call** using the following syntax:

```javascript
nameOfFunction();
```

## Save your code, Refresh your game

For now, by copying and pasting these function calls we are violating the **DRY Rule: D**ont **R**epeat **Y**ourself. Keep this in mind as we move on. We'll find a better way to do this!


# TODO 4 : Move your circles

Awesome, let's do some fun stuff with our circles now.  

**FIND:** The `function update()` where we will write code to animate our circles. 

Remember that the `update()` Function is called 60 times per second (also referred to as 60 ticks/frames per second), and on each new frame we want to move our circles slightly.

The `physikz.updatePosition( circle )` Function which accepts a circle as an argument will redraw that circle in a new location!

Since our circles are all stored in the `circles` **Array** we must use _Bracket Notation_ to pull out each individual circle to be moved. Bracket Notation includes the **Index** of the value that we want to pull out of the Array. The first value in the Array has an index of `0`, the next has an index of `1`, and so on.

```javascript
myArray[0] //--> returns the first value in myArray
myArray[1] //--> returns the second value in myArray
```

**CODE:** Call the `physikz.updatePosition()` Function and pass in the **first circle** in the `circles` Array. Then, do the same with the other 4 circles. Your code should look like this

```javascript
function update() {
	// TODO 4 : Update the circle's position //

	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
	physikz.updatePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
}
```


## Suggestion
You can make your circles move more quickly (once they are moving) by changing the `physikz.addRandomVelocity` line to have two extra arguments. This will make testing future steps easier.

Back up in the `drawCircle()` function, try changing that line to be `physikz.addRandomVelocity(circle, canvas, 10, 10);`. If you want the circles to go faster, put bigger numbers. If you want them to go slower, put smaller ones.


# TODO 5 : Keep your circles in the screen 

Call `game.checkCirclePosition` on each of your circles

The incomplete Function `game.checkCirclePosition()`, when called, is meant to keep circles that stray off the screen on the screen. 

**FIND:** The `update` Function and `// TODO 5`

**CODE:** Call the `game.checkCirclePosition()` Function and pass in the **first circle** in the `circles` Array. Then, do the same with the other 4 circles. Your code should look like this

```javascript
// TODO 5 : Call game.checkCirclePosition() on your circles.

game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
game.checkCirclePosition( /* Your Bracket Notation HERE */ );
```

**Save your code and refresh your program.**

At this point you'll notice that the circles only come back if they exit through the right side of the screen. In the next part, we'll fix this.

# TODO 6 : Commit your working code 

Since you have working code that creates five circles that move across the screen, now is a good time to commit your code and push your work. This will take a snapshot of your current work, save it to an external site - Github - and give you a good place to go back to if you have any later issues that you are unable to debug.

In your bash terminal, enter the following commands, pressing ENTER after each one:

`git add .`

`git commit -m 'add five circles to project'`

`git push`

# TODO 7 : Loop from all sides

**FIND:** The Function Declaration for `game.checkCirclePosition()`. Currently, it should contain this code:

````javascript
if (circle.x > canvas.width) {
	circle.x = 0;
}
````

## IMPORTANT - Read about the circle and canvas

**The Circle**

Each `circle` has 2 properties: `circle.x` and `circle.y`
- `circle.x` is the current position of the circle along the x-axis.
- `circle.y` is the current position of the circle along the y-axis. 

**The Canvas**

The `canvas` represents the blank screen and allows us to add drawings to it. The canvas has 2 very important *properties*:
- `canvas.width` is the maximum x-coordinate on the screen.
- `canvas.height` is the maximum y-coordinate on the screen.

The minimum x and y coordinates are `0` and `0`. This is called the origin, where the x-axis and y-axis intersect at 0, and is always located in the top left corner of the browser window. 

<img src="img/screenBounds.png" height="300px">

Since `canvas.width` is the **Maximum** x-coordinate on the screen, if `circle.x` is greater than that value, then we know the box has drifted past the right side of the screen.

`circle.x = 0` re-assigns the x-coordinate of the circle to `0`, placing it on the left side - opposite of where the box left the screen!

The Function is incomplete however. It only keeps circles that exit the right side on the screen! 

**CODE:** Add additional `if` statements to check the other three sides of the screen. For each `if` statement, write a comment that explains what the conditional statement checks for (such as, 'what side of the screen your circle is going off the screen?'), and what happens when the condition becomes true (where do you want to place the circle once it's off the screen?). Adding these comments before attempting to build your remaining 3 conditional statements will help make your life a bit easier by outlining which conditions you are building for. Don't be the coder that finds out later you were off track simply by not knowing what condition you were testing for! The Function to add conditionals to should look like this:

```js
game.checkCirclePosition = function(circle) {

	// if the circle has gone past the RIGHT side of the screen then place it on the LEFT
	if ( circle.x > canvas.width ) {
		circle.x = 0;
	}
	
	// TODO 7 : YOUR CODE STARTS HERE //////////////////////
	
	/* Your conditional statements HERE */

	// YOUR TODO 7 CODE ENDS HERE //////////////////////////
}
```

## Hints
<details> <summary>  Hints for common issues
</summary>

### Issue 1: Circles disappear
Possible causes:
1. You didn't handle the cases of all four sides
2. You used `else if` or `else` for some of the conditional statements (all four checks should be independent)
3. One or more of your conditions are incorrect
4. One or more of your assignments are incorrect

### Issue 2: Circles get stuck
This is caused if you move the circle to the wrong location. Check each assignment in your conditional statements and make sure you are sending your circle to the opposite side of the canvas. 

Also make sure you are not changing the x value for the top and bottom, nor should you be changing the y value for the left and right.

### Issue 3: Circles teleport without hitting the edge of the screen
This means that at least one of your conditions is correct. Make sure you are using `canvas.width` and `canvas.height`, and that you aren't putting in raw numbers (except for 0 -- that one is okay).

</details>

**CHALLENGE:** The circle is centered around its own `x` and `y` position. To find the outer right edge of the circle, we can use the `circle.radius` property like so:

```javascript
var rightEdge = circle.x + circle.radius;
```

Use the `circle.radius` property to calculate the four edges of the circle to make the  circle more smoothly exit and enter the screen!

# TODO 8 : Draw 100 circles

A loop should do the job! 

**FIND:** `// TODO 3 / 8` and your repetitive calls to `drawCircle()`.

**CODE:** Replace your repetitive code with a loop (either a `while` or a `for` loop) that will call the `drawCircle()` Function 100 times.

**HINT:** Here is the basic outline of a while loop that runs 10 times...

```javascript
var loopsCompleted = 0; 
while (loopsCompleted < 10) {
    // do something
    loopsCompleted++
}
```
...and a for loop that runs 10 times:

```js
for (var loopsCompleted = 0; loopsCompleted < 10; loopsCompleted++) {
    // do something
}
```

# TODO 9 : Iterate over the array

Now that we have 100 circles, we need a way to move all 100 circles and keep all 100 circles within the screen without calling on each circle individually. **Iterating** is the way to go!

Iteration is the process of accessing every element in an array and performing some action with that element. 

To help iterate, we want to answer the following questions:
1. What are you trying to repeat?
2. What needs to change from loop to loop?
3. How long will the loop run?

In our case, we want to access every `circle` from our `circles` array and apply the `physikz.updatePosition(circle)` function on each circle. The circle is that we call the Function with changes from loop to loop. We will loop until every circle has been called on!

To iterate we can follow this pattern

```javascript
for (var i = 0; i < myArray.length; i++) {
    var eachValue = myArray[i];
    
    // code to repeat using eachValue
}
```
How can we apply this pattern to our `circles` array? What code do we want to execute for each value?

**FIND:** The `update` Function, below **TODO 8**

**CODE:** Follow the pattern above and create a loop that will iterate over the `circles` array and create a variable `var eachCircle` for each circle in the Array. 

# TODO 10 : Move all our circles and keep them all in bounds

Awesome job! Now that we have our loop in place and we are iterating over our `circles` Array, let's use the `circle` that we pull out on each loop to do some cool stuff!

1. Within the loop that you just created, call the `physikz.updatePosition(eachCircle)` function.
2. Then, call the `game.checkCirclePosition(eachCircle)` function.
3. Delete your calls to those functions from **TODO 4** and **TODO 5**
4. In place of your deleted function calls, add a comment stating why they were deleted
5. Sit back and relax

Congrats!

## TODO 11 : Go Live

In your bash terminal, enter the following commands, pressing ENTER after each one:

`git add .`

`git commit -m 'refactor to create 100 circles using loops'`

`git push`

Give it a couple minutes and you should be able to view the additions to your website live on the web at `username.github.io` (Where `username` is your own GitHub username.)

Your Circularity is now safely on GitHub. Congrats!
